.TH dimension 7
.SH NAME
dimension

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBdimension.sh\fP is a shared linux system carrying on the legacy of \fBdimension.spodnet.uk.com\fP, which was a collection of *nix systems available to friends and students at Halton College in Widnes, UK.

.SH ADMINISTRATORS
The current administrators of \fBdimension.sh\fP are:
.IP \(em 2
~nikdoof

.SH SERVICES
.B dimension.sh
provides a collection of services to its members:
.IP \(em 2
SSH shell with relatively relaxed limits
.IP \(em 2
Email address at \fB@dimension.sh\fP

.SH COMMANDS
Here is a list of useful commands to get you started exploring what we have to offer:

.IP \(em 2
\fBwall\fP, send messages to all users logged onto \fBdimension.sh\fP (see \fIwall.1\fP).
.IP \(em 2
\fBmesg\fP, Run with "mesg n" to stop the wall mesages (see \fImesg.1\fP).
.IP \(em 2
\fBmutt\fP, A email client that'll allow you access your \fB@dimension.sh\fP (see \fImutt.1\fP).
.IP \(em 2
\fBfinger\fP, query user's information on this system and others (see \fIfinger.1\fP).
.IP \(em 2
\fBbombadillo\fP, a HTTP, Gopher, and Gemini browser (check \fIbombadillo.1\fP).
.IP \(em 2
\fBirssi\fP, a IRC client that is configured to connect to tidle.chat and our IRC channel by default (see \fIirssi.1\fP).
.IP \(em 2
\fBtoot\fP, a Mastodon (a federated social network, like Twitter) CLI client.
.IP \(em 2
\fBtwtxt\fP, a decentralised, minimalist microblogging service for hackers.
.IP \(em 2
\fBhugo\fP, a static website generator (check https://gohugo.io/).

.SH HISTORY
\fBdimension\fP was created in 1997, and survived in its initial form until
2004. The original sysadmin \fBargh\fP wrote about the system on a history page
available on archive.org:

.IP
dimension was born on 10th October 1997. An old computer was resurrected from the ashes and reborn. From its slavery under Windows 95, dimension was given a new lease of life under linux. The box in question was a Dell Dimension series with a Pentium 75MHz processor and 16MB RAM.

RedHat 4.0 was installed and I opened up the system in a 'secure' firewalled environment. A few users were granted access. News of the box spread in the local community until I was asked to put dimension on the net.

dimension (mark I) had been liberated in fall of '97, however the new year brought a lack of machines at work, its fate was deemed to be that of workstation once more. To keep dimension alive the server is now running on one of my home PC's which I brought into work. It used to have Slackware on it and it was my main development machine for the past 3 years. After many processor updates from 486SX to DX2 to AMD DX4 (aw man that was bad), many hard disk updates, two new monitors, three new keyboards and three new cases, it now runs an Intel Pentium [233MHz] processor with 128MB RAM. Disk access is through an Adaptec 2940 controller card which run a 4GB Western Digital Caviar as well as a 9GB Seagate Barracuda....of course I could go on about it's supralight speed 3x CDROM...but we don't talk about that part.

dimension still runs on Redhat 4.2 (after an upgrade), under kernel 2.0.36. We nearly went Redhat 5.x but I found that a lot of older software was incompatable so we've stayed here till I fix the bugs...and to see

dimension now supports more than 30 users with ranges of interest from houses to horseracing, linux to loo rolls (okay no loo rolls). We hold the official Stagefright(still under construction...come on Tracey!) and Idlewild band homepages. We run a Linux user group (thanks to qwaszx et al. for that one), IRC server, MUD and loads of other services to keep our members happy, as well as drag the Internet community to us.

.PP
In June 2020, \fBnikdoof\fP who was previous user of the original dimension, was inspired to create a new system after reading about the \fBtildeverse\fP and other public *nix servers available. He decided to keep the ideals close to the original server; access for friends other interested people without any harsh limitations on what they could do.